Welcome back.
I want us to understand how things work underneath the hood.
So I'm going to show you two examples of implementing our own for loop and then implementing our own
range function.
So the first one is our for loop song I say special for loop underneath the hood.
All it's doing is receiving an.
And then we're gonna say iterator is going to equal an irritable.
Now for us to have an interval we have what we call an inner function that accepts the variable we just
passed now.
This inner function is going to allow us to use the next function on this eatable.
So stay with me.
I'm going to say While true I want to try and in this try block will say iterator and we can perform
let's say some sort of operation here if we want or we can just call next iterator you know let's print
something here just so we see what the iterator is.
And then finally I want us to stop when we have the stop iteration exception.
Remember the one that we saw where there's no more items in the ignorable and here we simply can just
break and make sure that I have the column set correctly.
So now if I do special for loop and give it a list of one two three and I click Run
check it out I loop through some ignorable objects using next and you see that this object exists in
the same memory space even though we're constantly looping through it through one two three.
So this is how for loops work underneath the hood.
When we do for let's say num in and then give it a list it's going to go through everything it's going
to turn it into an admirable and it's going to keep running and keep calling next iterator on it over
and over and over until we finish the end of the line and then break out of the loop and how do we check
the actual values of the iterator.
Well remember the next function is going to output whatever the item is next.
So if I do print here and I click Run I get one two three so I can just do times two if I wanted to
click Run.
And there you go.
Are Special for loop just multiplied our list by two.
That's it that's all for loops really work but what about ranges can we create our own range.
Function we absolutely can.
And this is a fun one let's create a class and this class because at the end of the day we're just going
to create an object that has actions that we can do.
So I'll say my Jen for my generator and this is going to mimic what our range does.
So I'm going to have a class and this class will have a init function.
We'll have a self a first and last.
So this is how a range we're able to say start with this and end with this and in here we'll do the
typical s dot first equals to first and then self dot last equals to last.
And I'm using a class here because remember we're just creating our own data type our own special range
in python.
Now we have our simple generator and ideally we want to be able to say Jen equals and instantiate my
Jen to have let's say zero to hundred.
Just like we would with a range and ideally we can say for I and Jen and print high because I mean that's
how we're able to use ranges right.
So how can I make this work.
Well we can use our Dunder methods so remember how we have the inner to get an iterator and use next
on them.
Well we have a define Dunder that is inner and outer allows us to create an arable so in our case I'll
say self and here I'm just going to return the actual class.
Like so and then finally we want to be able to run the next function on our Jen because we saw how for
loops work we need to be able to use the order and then the next on the.
So once again we can use a Dunder method which is conveniently called
and this is built into python.
So if I do hear self
and all we want to do here is to let her know how we want next to work.
Well I'll say if we need some sort of state or data to keep track of where we are.
Remember how generator functions remember where they are.
Well we can create a class object attribute.
So I can say current equals to zero.
So this is where we are currently on our iteration and say My Jen dot current.
As long as that is less than self.
Dot blast which will be the hundred here if that's the case.
Well I want a number to equal my Jen dot current I want to increase my Jen dot current by 1 because
we want to say hey we're moving up to the next location and then return
the number because that's how next works underneath the hood.
Right.
We increment our current location by one and we're simply returning the number which is well in our
case it's going to be zero and we want to keep going keep going keep going well until current is no
longer bigger than last.
In that case we're simply going to raise a stop iteration because there's no more things to iterate
over.
Let's see if this works I'm going to run this
and look at that.
It's all working I was able to loop through my generator and print high from zero all the way to ninety
nine again.
If we go back to our example here and I know this is a little hard to look at it at first but all I
did was say I want an IT function to have the option of first and last and I'm going to want to be able
to iterate through this object that I'm going to create.
And I also want to be able to use the next which for loop if you remember from our previous example
needs so I'm going to say for item in Jen just loop through it I'm able to live through it because this
is now an iterator and I'm able to use the next value on it because I allow us to loop and constantly
increase by 1 until we keep returning the number keep returning the number until my gender current becomes
one hundred and a hundred is not less than a hundred which is self don't last.
So it's going to raise a stop iteration the for loop automatically catches us so it doesn't erode out
and it stops looping that's how things work underneath the hood with Branch.
Now you don't need to know this you're not going to be asked in your day to day to implement this but
I wanted to show you that this is how things work.
I think that's important.